# A role for BCL2L13 and autophagy in germ line purifying selection of mtDNA

This repository contains all scripts necessary to reproduce the data analysis and figures presented in Kremer _et al._ (2022).

## Software requirements

Scripts were written for and executed in `R v.4.2.1`. They employ the following `R` packages, all of which are available on CRAN:
- `cowplot v.1.1.1`,
- `ggbeeswarm v.0.6.0`,
- `MetBrewer v.0.2.0`,
- `tidyverse v.1.3.1`.

All code should be both forward- and back-compatible within reason, but please remember to run regular updates.

## Setup and script outline

Raw heteroplasmy data as presented in Kremer _et al._ (2022) can be found in `data/raw/`. Parsed data, including data tables and summaries, is in `data/parsed/`, and figures are in `figures/`.

Scripts should principally be run in numerical order from the parent directory. The only exception is `00-plot-setup.R`, which does not need to be executed separately but which is called by other scripts. Whenever a file (e.g. a data file or a figure) is generated by a script, that file is given the prefix of the corresponding script. For example, the code for generating `05-fig2.jpg` can be found in `05-figures.R`.

`00-plot-setup.R` contains the `ggplot2` theme and colour palettes used for generating all figures.

`01-data-preprocessing.R` is used to parse the raw data, do all necessary preprocessing, and calculate summary statistics.

`02-maximal-tolerated.R` investigates the highest observed pup heteroplasmy measurements across genotype groups.

`03-shift-analysis.R` contains Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests for pup heteroplasmy shift across the genotype groups.

`04-sample-sizes.R` contains the resampling analysis showing the _Bcl2l13_ knockout effect is reliably observed at lower sample sizes.

`05-figures.R` can be used to replicate Figures 2-4 in the paper.

## References

If you use any of the code, methods or data presented here, please cite us:
